---
layout: post
title:  "Intro. My First Post."
date:   2015-12-21 00:46:05 +0100
categories: everything
---
That is my first post in this blog. In this post I would like to introduce 
myself, explain the idea of this blog, share some plans etc.

Hello, my dear reader!

Let's start from introduction. My name is Istomin Andrej. I'm a 
software developer for about 10 years. I'm 30 years old now: 28 years I
was living in Kyrgyz Republic and last couple of years I was migrating.
I lived in Belarus about a two years and now I'm living in Germany. I'm married
and have a stepson. I believe, this information is enough for now. Later I will
put a solid "Biography" page somewhere, as many self-indulgent guys do :) 
Maybe :)

The topics which are interesting to me: software development, music, 
football("soccer" if you like). I think that all my future posts are mostly
going to be related to any of these topics.

What I'm going to share with you? I think it will be some tips and tricks for
junior developers, instructions, probably some thoughts about software industry.
Sometimes I will be sharing posts that are not related to IT, but I think it 
won't be too often.

What don't I want to be there? Political stuff. I don't want to write and 
discuss anything related to racism, patriotism, religion and other bullshit 
that some people are too much interested in.

In the next months I plan to publish few posts regarding Jenkins configuration. 
Also I have to add comments section to the post's page. Without comments it's 
not a blog, but rather diary of a madman. I need a feedback. The primary goal of
this blog is to share something that can be useful for other people. 

P.S. Sorry if this post is not really clear and well structured. It's my first
attempt, I will try to be better.

P.P.S. Yeah, my English is horrible, I know that. I'll try to improve it in the
future, also I hope that information I will share is more important than form of
my speech. I apologize for my English.

Best regards,
Andrej.
