---
layout: post
title:  "Local final variables do not work in Groovy"
date:   2016-01-12 14:14:48 +0100
categories: programming grails groovy
tags: [groovy, local, final, variables]
---
I noticed that something was really strange in Grails project I worked on. When
I found out what is going on I couldn't believe my eyes. Groovy do not respect
local final variables. Yes, I really mean that, do not respect, not at all.

First of all, I want to remind how it works in java:
{% highlight java %}
public class FinalTest {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        final int var = 1;
        var = 2;
        assert 1 == var;
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
This code above can not be compiled. Java says: 
{% highlight console %}
chriss-MBP:final_test andrej$ javac FinalTest.java 
FinalTest.java:4: error: cannot assign a value to final variable var
        var = 2;
        ^
1 error
{% endhighlight %}

Ok, now let's look at the similar script in Groovy. I called it 
final_test.groovy, that's it's content:
{% highlight groovy %}
final def var = 1
var = 2
assert 1 == var
{% endhighlight %}

Let's run it:
{% highlight console %}
chriss-MBP:final_test andrej$ groovy final_test.groovy 
Caught: Assertion failed: 

assert 1 == var
         |  |
         |  2
         false

Assertion failed: 

assert 1 == var
         |  |
         |  2
         false

	at final_test.run(final_test.groovy:3)
{% endhighlight %}

Script was successfully compiled, no compile time errors. At runtime Groovy
ignored ```final``` keyword and just assigned value 2 to the variable ```var```.

For testing I was using Java version 1.7.0_79 for MacOS and Groovy 2.4.4. The
test examples are in [repository](https://github.com/aistomin/final_test). You
can test it in your environment if you do not think that my experiment is good
enough. :)

Maybe in the future they will fix this problem with final variables: 
[GROOVY-1628](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GROOVY-1628)

Be careful with that, do not rely on Groovy. 

Happy coding everybody! :)